how to debug an error?
Programs produced with structured techniques were clearer, easier to debug
and modify and more likely to be bug free in the first place
Read the problem statement.
2. Formulate the algorithm using pseudocode and top-down, stepwise refinement.
3. Write a C program.
4. Test, debug and execute the C program.
When de-bugging a program, this repeatability is essential for proving that corrections to a program
work properly.
Function rand actually generates pseudorandom numbers. Calling rand repeatedly
produces a sequence of numbers that appears to be random. However, the sequence repeats
itself each time the program is executed. Once a program has been thoroughly debugged,
it can be conditioned to produce a different sequence of random numbers for each execu-
tion. This is called randomizing and is accomplished with the standard library function
srand . Function srand takes an unsigned integer argument and seeds function rand to
produce a different sequence of random numbers for each execution of the program.
We demonstrate function srand in Fig. 5.13. Function srand takes an unsigned int
value as an argument. The conversion specifier %u is used to read an unsigned int value
with scanf . The function prototype for srand is found in <stdlib.h> .
Let’s run the program several times and observe the results. Notice that a different
sequence of random numbers is obtained each time the program is run, provided that a
different seed is supplied.
To randomize without entering a seed each time, use a statement like
The srand function call is ordinarily inserted in a program only after it has been thoroughly de-
bugged. While debugging, it’s better to omit srand . This ensures repeatability, which is essential
to proving that corrections to a random number generation program work properly.
Use conditional compilationto specify portions of aprogram that should notalways be compiled (such ascode that assists you indebugging)

Conditional compilation is commonly used as a debugging aid. Many C implementa-
tions include debuggers, which provide much more powerful features than conditional
compilation. If a debugger is not available, printf statements are often used to print vari-
able values and to confirm the flow of control. These printf statements can be enclosed
in conditional preprocessor directives so the statements are compiled only while the
debugging process is not completed. For example,
#ifdef DEBUG
causes a printf statement to be compiled in the program if the symbolic constant DEBUG
has been defined ( #define DEBUG ) before directive #ifdef DEBUG . When debugging is
completed, the #define directive is removed from the source file (or commented out) and
the printf statements inserted for debugging purposes are ignored during compilation. In
larger programs, it may be desirable to define several different symbolic constants that con-
trol the conditional compilation in separate sections of the source file. Many compilers al-
low you to define and undefine symbolic constants with a compiler flag so that you do notneed to change the code.
